Feature/refactor (#7)
Lawrencium77/quant_blog: Fast and Accurate GPU Quantization for Transformers.md

As Transformer models increase in size, the computational cost of running inference also grows. Many organisations now face the challenge of deploying state-of-the-art models in a cost-effective way.

One popular technique for this is **quantization** - by reducing the precision of network parameters and activations, quantization aims to **increase throughput** and **decrease memory footprint**. Whilst reducing peak memory by quantizing from FP16 to INT8 is pretty much guaranteed, achieving performance improvements can be trickier. This is particularly true when running INT8 operations on GPU.

> The main challenge stems from the overheads associated with the quantization/dequantization operations - which can mask the performance gains from the blazingly fast INT8 Tensor Core matrix multiplies. The second part of this blog explores the nuances around achieving peak performance on GPU, and can be found here.

Reviewer: It seems strange to me that we introduce the second half of the blog before the first half. Is there a way to swap them around?

Reviewer: Also, I'm guessing you want to add a link at the end of this sentence?

Author: Yeah this is a bit weird, it came from an earlier version where I had split it into two separate blogs and made more sense there. I basically wanted to make it obvious that they could be read almost independently for people that understand quantization already. Will try and rework it

Author: Lets review this on main branch

> Achieving high throughput and low memory is all very well, but largely useless if quantizing to lower precision results in degradations in model accuarcy. In the first part of this blog we will introduce the quantization formulation, and explore some techniques for preserving accuracy - *whilst maintaining high throughput*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Achieving high throughput and low memory is all very well, but largely useless if quantizing to lower precision results in degradations in model accuarcy. In the first part of this blog we will introduce the quantization formulation, and explore some techniques for preserving accuracy - *while maintaining high throughput*.
```

	* [Fusion Implementation](#Fusion%20Implementation)
* [References](#References)

# Part I: Accurate Quantization

> We’ll begin with a quick overview of quantization. For deeper reading on this subject, some nice blogs/papers in the [References](#References) section [1-4].

Reviewer: Not sure this reads well now?

Author: Agree, lets revisit after merging

### The Quantization Equation

In principle, we can use any function to convert from a higher-precision to lower-precision representation. But a linear function is simplest and quickest [4]:

$$Q(x)=\textrm{Int}(x/S)-Z$$ 

Here, $Q$ and $x$ are the fixed-point output and floating-point input, while $S$ and $Z$ represent the scale factor and bias. $\textrm{Int}$ is a function that rounds to the nearest integer, clipping values outside of the representable range. 

> After applying our lower-precision operation we return the data to it's original dynamic range by dequantizing the data: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After applying our lower-precision operation we return the data to it's original dynamic range with dequantization: 
```

$$\tilde{x}=S Q(x) + Z$$

This method is called **uniform quantization** since the quantized values are uniformly distributed over the input space. To calculate $S$ we select a **clipping range** $[\alpha, \beta]$ and then use:

$$S=\frac{\beta-\alpha}{2^b-1}$$

> Here, $b$ is the number of bits in our quantization scheme. GPU based quantization schemes typicall enforce $\alpha=-\beta$, which is known as **symmetric quantization**. This simplifies the (de)quantization functions by setting $Z=0$, which helps reduce the cost of the transformation {do we have any reference for this??}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, $b$ is the number of bits in our quantization scheme. GPU based quantization schemes typically enforce $\alpha=-\beta$, which is known as **symmetric quantization**. This simplifies the (de)quantization functions by setting $Z=0$, which helps reduce the cost of the transformation [4](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2103.13630.pdf).
```

Reviewer: Yes, we can use one of the references we already have: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2103.13630.pdf

## Specifics of  INT8 GEMMs

> The core element of a quantized neural network is INT8 matrix multiplication. Understanding its details is crucial for an efficient implementation. This section describes these details, and serves as context for [Part II](Part II: Fast GPU Quantization in Practice) of the blog

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The core element of a quantized neural network is INT8 matrix multiplication. Understanding its details is crucial for an efficient implementation. This section describes these details, and serves as context for [Part II](Part II: Fast GPU Quantization in Practice) of the blog.
```

#### FasterTransformer 
In contrast FasterTransformer is fully open sourced, but still only supports INT8 out of the box with a small number of standard architectures. This is likely because the INT8 compatible models have been rewritten from the ground up in C++, and for good reason: in order to leverage the best performance from cuBLASLt a **non-standard interleaved data layout** is used for input/output tensors, and so custom activation / normalization kernels are required to avoid expensive layout conversions between matmuls. Whilst this gives performance competitive with TensorRT under certain conditions, it does limit the extensibility of the existing INT8 model implementations for more novel architectures.

> Ideally we can achieve the peformance of the inference frameworks, but retaining the flexibility of the afforementioned libraries. For the remainder of the blog we will focus on the challenges of achieving both good INT8 performance _and_ flexibility, by proposing modular components that can be applied to different architectures, whilst remaining within the PyTorch framework for non-quantized components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ideally we can achieve the performance of the inference frameworks, but retaining the flexibility of the aforementioned libraries. For the remainder of the blog we will focus on the challenges of achieving both good INT8 performance _and_ flexibility, by proposing modular components that can be applied to different architectures, whilst remaining within the PyTorch framework for non-quantized components.
```
